DOCSP-30557: FAQ (#102)
mongodb/docs-rust: source/faq.txt

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

On this page, you can find frequently asked questions and their corresponding answers.

.. tip::

   If you can't find an answer to your problem on this page, see the
   :ref:`rust-issues-and-help` page for next steps and more resources.

Why Am I Getting Errors While Connecting to MongoDB?
----------------------------------------------------

If you have trouble connecting to a MongoDB deployment, see the
:ref:`rust-connection-troubleshooting` guide for possible solutions.

.. _rust-faq-connection-pool:

How Does Connection Pooling Work in the Rust Driver?
----------------------------------------------------

Each server in your MongoDB topology has a corresponding ``Client`` instance,
which manages the server's connection pool. Connection pools open sockets on
demand to support concurrent operations in your multi-threaded application.

You can configure the following connection pool features:

- Maximum and minimum size, set by the ``max_pool_size`` and ``min_pool_size`` options
- Maximum number of connections that the pool creates in parallel, set by the ``max_connecting``
  option

> - Maximum idle time, set by the ``max_idle_time`` option

Author: Made a [ticket](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-35254) for this! Do you think I should keep the information about connection pooling on this page too?

section of the Performance Considerations guide.

How Do I Fix the "Trait bounds were not satisfied" Error?
---------------------------------------------------------

Trait bounds allow methods to restrict which types they accept as parameters
and what functionality those types must implement. For example, if you define
a method that accepts a generic type parameter and prints its value, the parameter
must implement the ``Display`` trait for printing purposes. The following example
defines the ``printer`` method and specifies that the method's parameter must
implement ``Display``: 

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: true

   fn printer<T: Display>(t: T) {
      println!("{}", t);
   }

When calling a method on a data type, you might encounter an error stating that
the method exists for your specified data type but its trait bounds are not
satisfied. For example, the driver might raise the following error message when
you call the ``try_next()`` method on a ``Cursor`` instance:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   error[E0599]: the method `try_next` exists for struct `mongodb::Cursor<T>`,
   but its trait bounds were not satisfied

> The ``Cursor<T>`` type implements the ``Stream`` trait and has access to the

Author: I adjusted this section and included an example of when this error might occur & its resolution

``TryStreamExt`` methods, including ``try_next()``. However, ``Cursor<T>`` only
implements ``Stream`` if the trait bounds for ``T`` are satisfied. Namely, ``T``
must implement the ``DeserializeOwned`` trait, as specified in the `Cursor
<{+api+}/struct.Cursor.html/>`__ API documentation.

To resolve the preceding error, identify the data type over which the cursor 
iterates and ensure that this data type implements the ``DeserializeOwned`` trait.
You can use a ``where`` clause to apply the required trait bounds.

For more information about trait bounds, see the following resources:

- :community-forum:`Cursor trait bounds question <t/rust-driver-help-writing-a-generic-find-method/168846>`
  in the Community Forums
- `Bounds <https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/generics/bounds.html>`__ in the
  Rust language documentation
- `Where clauses <https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/generics/where.html>`__
  in the Rust language documentation

How Do I Convert Between BSON and Rust Types?
---------------------------------------------

The {+driver-short+} and the BSON library use the Serde framework to perform

> conversions between custom Rust types, like structs and enums, and BSON. You can

Author: Agreed that the commas make this confusing; I just left it at "conversions between custom Rust types and BSON"

install the ``serde`` crate to access the functionality of the Serde framework.
For instructions on installing this crate, see `serde <https://crates.io/crates/serde>`__
at the ``crates.io`` crate registry.

> After installing the ``serde`` crate, you can model the documents in a collection

Author: I've seen the "install" syntax use but yeah saying "add" is better, since there's no other installation process other than adding the crate to your dependencies. Fixed

by using a custom type instead of a BSON document. Add the following ``derive``
statement before your custom struct definition to allow for serialization, or conversion

> to BSON, and deserialization, or conversion to the struct type:

Reviewer: Issue:
I think this sentence is difficult to follow because of all the comma-separated phrases and conjunctions.

Suggestion:
I think a list could help describe each of items that the derive statement enables. E.g.

"The following \`\`derive\`\`" statement instructs the driver to perform the following actions when needed:
- Serialize the struct, which converts the struct to BSON
- Deserialize the struct, which converts it from BSON to your struct
"

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: true

   #[derive(Serialize, Deserialize)]

> You can then instantiate a ``Collection`` instance with your custom struct type as its

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think it could be good to show the code for the format of this. To accomplish this, perhaps the previous code example could have the struct name in the declaration (no need to show all the struct code) and then this code example could show instantiation of the Collection with the struct's type.

generic type parameter.

For more information about converting between BSON and Rust types, see the
:ref:`rust-serialization` guide and the :website:`Structuring Data with Serde in Rust
</developer/languages/rust/serde-improvements/>` MongoDB Developer Center article.

How Do I Process Values Wrapped in ``Result`` and ``Option`` Enums?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rust language provides the ``Result`` and ``Option`` enums as safeguards for
your application code. Many methods provided by the {+driver-short+} return values
wrapped in one of these two types. The ``Result`` enum has an ``Ok(T)`` and an ``Err(E)``
variant, and it wraps the return values of methods that can output either a valid or

> an error result. The ``Option`` enum has a ``None`` and a ``Some(T)`` variant, and it

Reviewer: Issue:

From this sentence, I'm unable to determine whether "Ok(T)" can wrap an error result since it mentions "output either ..." without specifying the associations.

Suggestion:

I think splitting the information up can make it easier to understand and reduce the chance of misinterpretation. E.g.

"The Result enum can return an Ok(T) or Err(E) variant. The Ok(T) variant wraps the value of the result of the operation. The Err(E) variant wraps the value of the error returned by the operation."

Suggestion applies to the next sentence describing Option as well.

wraps the return values of methods that can output either no value or some value.

For example, when you use the ``insert_one()`` method to insert a document into a
collection, the insert operation might not succeed. For this reason, the method returns

> a ``Result<InsertOneResult>`` type. You can use the ``?`` operator to instruct the driver

Reviewer: Issue:

I think the current order of information makes it difficult to determine how this is connected to the prior explanation until reading the last paragraph of this section.

Suggestion:

I think the relationship between "Result<InsertOneResult>" and Ok(T) and Err(E) should be mentioned in this sentence rather than at the end of the section. I also had difficulty seeing the connection in the reason and consequence signaled by "For this reason..." until after I read that section.

I think the explanation about the question mark operator could start in a separate paragraph since it explains one method of how to perform the unwrapping which is one of the answers to the FAQ entry.

"For example, the insert_one() method returns a Result<InsertOneResult> type to wrap either a successful response or an error.

To access the result, you can use the \`\`?`\`\` operator to unwrap \`\`InsertOneResult\`\`\. If the operation is successful, the \`\`?\`\` operator unwraps the ... If an error occurrs, ...
"

to either unwrap the ``InsertOneResult`` if it's valid or return an error if the operation
does not succeed. The following code demonstrates the syntax for using the ``?`` operator
while handling an insert operation result:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: true

   let insert_one_result = my_coll.insert_one(doc, None).await?;

If the preceding insert operation runs successfully, the ``insert_one_result`` variable
has a value of type ``InsertOneResult``. If the operation is unsuccessful, the code
returns an error.

Alternatively, you can create custom logic for handling the ``InsertOneResult`` value
depending on whether ``insert_one()`` returns the value wrapped in the ``Ok`` or the ``Err``

> variant.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think showing an example could be helpful, especially since it directly answers the FAQ entry. Perhaps it could use "is_ok" or "is_err"?

> For more information about the ``Result`` and ``Option`` enums, see the following

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think there could be value in showing an example of Option since there's one for Result. Otherwise, it could be helpful to provide some guidance on how Option differs or is similar to Result.

Each server in your MongoDB cluster maintains a connection pool. You can access or
manage the behavior of the connection pool by using an instance of a `Client
<{+api+}/struct.Client.html>`__. Connection pools open sockets on demand to support
concurrent operations in your multi-threaded application.

You can configure the following connection pool features:

- Maximum and minimum size, set by the ``max_pool_size`` and ``min_pool_size`` options
- Maximum number of connections that the pool creates in parallel, set by the ``max_connecting``
  option
- Maximum idle time, set by the ``max_idle_time`` option

For more information about connection pooling, see the :ref:`rust-performance-pool`
section of the Performance Considerations guide.

How Do I Convert Between BSON and Rust Types?
---------------------------------------------

The {+driver-short+} and the BSON library use the Serde framework to perform
conversions between custom Rust types and BSON. You can install the ``serde``
crate to access the functionality of the Serde framework. For instructions
on installing this crate, see `serde <https://crates.io/crates/serde>`__ in the

> crates registry.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it would be helpful to stay consistent with the terminology (whether "add the crate" or "install"). Based on 
[the prior comment](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-rust/pull/102#discussion_r1439841831) and the first sentence of the next paragraph, perhaps this should be "add the crate".

After you add the crate to your application, you can model the documents in a collection
by using a custom type instead of a BSON document. The following example includes a ``derive``

> statement before the ``Vegetable`` struct definition, which instructs the driver to

Reviewer: Suggestion:
From [the Derive page in Rust by Example](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/trait/derive.html), it seems like "derive" should be an "attribute" rather than "statement".

Author: good point - will fix in other Rust docs too

perform the following actions when needed:

- Serialize the struct, which converts the struct to BSON
- Deserialize BSON, which converts BSON data to your struct

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: true

   #[derive(Serialize, Deserialize)]
   struct Vegetable {
      // Add struct fields here
   }

You can then create a ``Collection`` instance with your custom struct type as its

> generic type parameter. The following example instantiates the ``my_coll`` collection

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think lowercase collection might imply a collection name rather than the Collection struct.

```suggestion
generic type parameter. The following example instantiates the ``my_coll`` Collection
```

Alternatively, perhaps "variable" would be more conventional since this describes assignment rather than direct instantiation.

   ``Deserialize`` without lifetime restrictions automatically implement ``DeserializeOwned``,
   so you can implement ``Deserialize`` to fulfill the ``DeserializeOwned`` trait bound.

The following example adjusts the ``Actor`` struct definition to implement ``Deserialize``:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: true

   #[derive(Deserialize)]
   struct Actor {
      name: String,
   }

For more information about trait bounds, see the following resources:

- :community-forum:`Cursor trait bounds question <t/rust-driver-help-writing-a-generic-find-method/168846>`
  in the Community Forums
- `Bounds <https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/generics/bounds.html>`__ in the
  Rust language documentation
- `Derive <https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/trait/derive.html>`__
  in the Rust language documentation

How Do I Process a Value Wrapped in a Result or Option Enum?
------------------------------------------------------------

Rust provides the ``Result`` and ``Option`` enums as safeguards for your application
code. Many methods offered by the {+driver-short+} return values wrapped in one of these
two types. 

The ``Result`` enum can return the following variants:

> - ``Ok(T)``, which wraps the value of the result of the operation
> - ``Err(E)``, which wraps an error value if the operation is unsuccessful

Reviewer: Issue:

The style guide on [List Items](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/lists/#list-items) provides specific guidance on list items that separate the initial term and information about it:

> If you need to separate the initial term or phrase from the information that follows it, use a colon. However, if you don't need a separator, don't use one. (For an example of a list in which separators aren't necessary, see the list at the top of this topic.

Suggestion:

```suggestion
- ``Ok(T)``: wraps the value of the result of the operation if the operation is successful
- ``Err(E)`: wraps an error value if the operation is unsuccessful
```

Applies to all similar instances.

  
The ``Option`` enum can return the following variants:

- ``None``, which represents an empty value returned by an operation

> - ``Some(T)``, which wraps a nonempty return value

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think "nonempty" is usually spelled with a hyphen ("non-empty").

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think the placement of the Result example directly after this makes it awkward. Instead, perhaps placing this before the line that starts with "Some {+driver-short+} methods return an ``Option`` type, such as the ``read_concern()``..." would make the information more organized and easier to locate.

> For example, the ``insert_one()`` method returns a ``Result`` type to wrap either a successful

Reviewer: Issue:

I think this information conflicts with the next paragraph (mentions InsertOneResult rather than Result).

Suggestion:

I think it would be helpful to call out the equivalence of InsertOneResult and Result. Perhaps something like (probably not the correct Rust terminology) "The insert_one() method returns an InsertOneResult type which extends the Result type"

response or an error.

> To access the result of ``insert_one()``, you can use the ``?`` operator to unwrap its
> return value. If the operation is successful, the ``?`` operator unwraps the ``InsertOneResult``

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think the first part of the sentence should directly introduce the rest of the sentence

In the current sentence, the first part mentions accessing the result and the rest of it explains only how to unwrap the return value.

```suggestion
To access the unwrapped result of ``insert_one()``, use the ``?`` operator. If the operation is successful, the ``?`` operator unwraps the ``InsertOneResult``
```

value and assigns it to the ``insert_one_result`` variable. If the operation is unsuccessful, 
the ``?`` operator unwraps and returns the error value. The following code demonstrates the
syntax for using the ``?`` operator while handling an insert operation result:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: true

   let insert_one_result = my_coll.insert_one(doc, None).await?;

> Alternatively, you can create custom logic for handling the ``InsertOneResult`` value
> depending on whether ``insert_one()`` returns the value wrapped in the ``Ok`` or the ``Err``
> variant. The following code uses the ``match`` keyword to process the ``insert_one()``

Reviewer: Suggestion:

No change necessary, but I think this might be a more succinct way to present this sentence since Result (InsertOneResult, once that equivalence is added) was explained earlier:

```suggestion
Alternatively, you can create a conditional to handle the unwrapped values of ``InsertOneResult``. The following code uses the ``match`` keyword to process the ``insert_one()``
```

      },
      Err(err) => {
        println!("Operation not successful");
      }
   }

Some {+driver-short+} methods return an ``Option`` type, such as the ``read_concern()``
method. This method returns an ``Option`` that wraps either an empty value, if no read
concern exists, or a ``ReadConcern`` value.

To access the result of ``read_concern()``, you can use the same ``match`` syntax as shown
in the preceding example to process the ``None`` and ``Some(T)`` variants. Alternatively, you
can use the ``if let`` syntax to process only the ``Some(T)`` variant. The following code unwraps
and prints the nonempty ``read_concern()`` return value, if it exists:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: true

   if let Some(rc) = my_coll.read_concern() {
      println!("Read concern: {:?}", rc);
   }

For more information about the ``Result`` and ``Option`` enums, see the following
resources in the Rust language documentation:

- `Result <https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/result/enum.Result.html>`__
- `Option <https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option/enum.Option.html>`__
- `? Operator <https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/std/result/question_mark.html>`__

> - `If Let <https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch06-03-if-let.html>`__

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think this could be confusing since the keywords "if" and "let" are lowercase in their usage and the content of the link describes behavior of using two keywords in a pattern rather than adjacent to each other: 

```suggestion
- Control Flow with `if let <https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch06-03-if-let.html>`__
```
